YouTube Video ID: MSqk6mbkQDU
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MSqk6mbkQDU
================================================================================

Everyone is hating on the Schwab US Dividend Equity ETF right now because if you look at its performance over the past year, over the past three years, it has really lagged behind not only the broader S&P 500 and NASDAQ, but actually the broader dividend growth investment universe. There are quite a few funds like VIG, DGRO, DGRW, even VIM that have outperformed SED in recent years. And of course also the covered call ETFs, JAPQ, JAPI, SPYI, QQQI, GPIQ, GPIX and so on and so forth. Those funds are all significantly outperforming SCHD as well. So many investors who previously were really excited about SCHD are throwing in the towel and saying this is dead money. This is a loser fund. I'm going to go chase after greener waters. And so far it's hard to argue against because again the performance has just not been there for recently. And so why do people hate SCD so much and what is my view moving forward? And so before I get into today's video though, if you like this type of content, please give it a like, subscribe to my channel. I regularly put out deep dives into individual stocks, discuss individual ETFs, CFS, share my overall portfolio, investing strategy, investing philosophy, and lessons learned. You get a lot of value from this channel. So again, if you'd subscribe, hit the bell for notifications, and like this video, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. All right, so let's dive in. Why is CHD underperforming so much? Well, it's a passively managed ETF, so it's not one that has some actively managed fund manager. It's not like the fund manager lost his touch or they lost their good manager and they have a bad one now. No, none of that applies. What has happened to SHD is really two things. First of all, it is a passively managed fund and it has criteria for what it includes. And that criteria means that, you know, it's going to be focusing on dividend payers. It has some higher yielding dividend stocks in there and it also focuses on strong dividend growth. And so as a result, it does not hold any of the leading mega cap technology stocks that have been driving the market's returns. Whereas almost all of its peers that have outperformed it actually include at least some, if not all of those high-erforming tech stocks. And so if you look at the market's performance in recent years, it's largely been driven by the NVIDIA, the Apples, the Microsofts, the Amazons, the Alphabets, the Metas, the Broadcoms, etc. And most of those companies are not eligible for inclusion in SCHD's portfolio because again it's focused on yield, dividend growth, etc. And so that has caused it to lag behind because if you take the S&P 500 and take out those big companies, the S&P 500 really has not performed very well at all in recent years either. And so that's really the crux of where its underperformance has come from. It's not some magical curse that's upon SHT. It's not that they have some bad managers. It's just that they have not been present in some of the hottest stocks that are also happen to be the largest stocks that are driving the market's performance and so they've gotten left behind as a result. I mean, there's still a lot to like structurally about the fund. They have one of the lowest expense ratios in the entire ETF space at just 0.06%. That means a lot more money left over for you, the investor and your returns. It's not being skimmed off the top by management. It has one of the highest dividend yields of any dividend growth ETF out there, about 4% on if you look at a forward-looking basis. It has one of the most impressive dividend growth track records, crushing the S&P 500's dividend growth. And as well as many of its fellow dividend funds, even despite it having a higher yield over the t past decade, it's grown at over a 10% annualized rate. Over the past five and three years, it's grown at a high single digits annualized rate. And so it's crushed inflation along with paying an attractive current yield. And so if you're just looking to retire on the 4% rule, SHD remains a highly compelling play because you get that dividend yield of about 4%. So you don't have to worry about sequence of returns risk. You don't have to worry about a lost decade. You don't have to worry about market crashes, any of that. You get that from cash flow from your shares. You never have to pay sell your shares. And those underlying shares are growing. They they grow the dividend consistently at a pace that meets or beats inflation. You're diversified across over 100 blue chip stocks. And you over the long term, SHD still has a pretty solid total return track record. And in fact, it actually outperformed S&P 500 for a while there until really the AI boom pushed the S&P 500 ahead. But many are concerned that we're in an AI bubble. Ray Dallio, Howard Marx, and others are are pointing to ridiculous valuations in the S&P 500, largely driven by these dominant tech AI tech stocks, and they're concerned about a loss decade ahead or even the bubble fully bursting. And if that were to happen, I think SHD would significantly outperform the S&P 500. So, there could be a major market rotation ahead that could really cause SCD to surge. And another element that really has become important for the SHD story over the past year is that it was reconstituted this spring and got shifted much more heavily into energy stocks. So it holds, you know, the Chevrons, etc. of the world. And those companies have high pretty attractive yields. They're very attractively valued. They're sitting on tons of natural gas. And so depending on where things go from here, energy, which has been in the doghouse recently, especially relative to the broader market, especially the AI space, I think is being overlooked because energy is going to be the underpinning for the AI boom. And so if all this growth and productivity that's being priced into these AI stocks actually comes to fruition, there's going to be incredible insatiable demand for energy. And yes, nuclear power, solar power, some wind, other innovative technologies. There's some even some coal out there. All that's being used. Yes, hydro, oil, and gas are still going to be important sources of energy for decades to come. There are numerous research groups that point to that. And I think especially natural gas is going to have very strong growth profile ahead of it. And these companies, these energy companies, many of them are very heavily into gas. And so they could benefit a lot from that. And so that could be a hidden driver for SHG's outperformance as well moving forward. If there's a market rotation from these tech AI companies to the energy companies as the AI boom matures and this infrastructure gets put in place, there's suddenly going to be a big step size increase in demand for energy. Uh that could drive SHD forward. Another thing that could really drive SHD forward is if as the AI boom matures, we move from early, you know, chip development, early design of LLMs and just the perceived leading horses in the AI race and we move to a point where, you know, the palunteers of the world and other companies like them have good applications for some of these companies that fill whether it be defense companies, whether it be consumer products companies, industrials, financials, logistics, whatever it may be, healthcare, these companies are going to begin to implement these leading large global bluechip companies are going to be implementing these AI models and these AI models as they become get to be implemented are going to cut costs dramatically for these companies and they have large proprietary corporate uh databases that they can implement these models and that could lead to dramatic profit growth for these companies and further strengthening of their competitive positioning due to having these proprietary algorithms that are far better than any of their peers can bring to market not to mention their superior economies of scale enabling them to implement and do R&D of their own to implement custommade robotics applications with, you know, agentic AI as well as real world AI to drive significant efficiency and quality improvements in their business models to crush competition. So that could be a huge boon to SCHD moving forward that the market is not pricing it at all given the valuation being assigned to its underlying holdings. So there are reasons to be bullish on SHD moving forward. I wouldn't give up hope if you're investing in it. Again, at the same, you know, especially if you're looking to just retire on dividends, it's hard to find a better one-stop shop than SCHD. Although again, I would still diversify it because it lacks much in the way of exposure to any kind of fixed income or even credit like BDC's for example. So maybe you want to round it out with like a Blackstone secured lending or Aris Capital Corporation or Main Street Capital or Capital Southwest or even if you want to go a little bit on the riskier side, but more value and still having good quality like Gulib Capital BDC or even Morgan Stanley Direct Lending. Those are all good options to round it out. And of course, it doesn't have much in the way of of infrastructure. It has the energy, but not really the infrastructure side. So you could invest in MLPS if you want just the layered MLP ETF or maybe enterprise products partners and NPLX or if you want to go on the Ccorporation side there's always 10 there's Nbridge and there are others out there that are quality options. So so you have a plethora of choices before you there. Another way you can round it out further is you could invest in real estate investment trusts because it doesn't have much in the way of REITs and I think REITs are another sector that's been beaten down recently that could explode higher if long-term interest rates move lower. We'll see what the Fed does. We'll see what inflation does. But there is a case to be made that reats could be headed much higher. So you could buy individual REITs like you know Realy Income, Simon Property Group. There are other really attractive ones out there. Even NN Reed is attractively priced right now. Mid America Apartment Communities, Camden Properties Trust. There are a lot of blue chips. There's some good uh like Kite Realy Group or even Federal Realy Trust. It's a dividend king. Those are some solid choices across the REIT space and and there are quite a few others actually. REITs in general are quite attractive right now. So you could go that route or you could just buy the Vanguard or the Cohen and Steers REIT funds VNQ or RQI and there are a few others. So there are a lot of ways you can round that out with with REITs as well. So that's one thing you can do with SHC. And of course, if you also want some tech exposure, you can use like the Goldman Sachs uh NASDAQ covered call ETF or the JP Morgan NASDAQ equity premium income ETF, GPIQ or JPQ. Those are both solid choices if you want income plus tech exposure to further round out your portfolio. So that's one way you can do it. At the same time though, I do think there's a structural flaw with SCHD beyond just that it's missing these le leading mega cap companies that I think could really make a big difference. Now again, just a reminder, if you like this content, please give it a like. Uh subscribe to the channel for more like this. So what is this structural flaw? Well, the the the very matter of it is is that because they invest in dividend stocks that pay out high dividends, and yes, they do grow their dividends, but they're missing out on one of the most valuable components of dividends. Now, dividend stocks, they're a bit of a hybrid type of model. They're not the pure growth speculative but very high upside potential that you get with tech stocks like Palanteer, Nvidia, etc. But at the same time, they're not fixed income either, right? They don't just pay a contractual div uh interest rate payment or preferred dividend. They pay a dividend, but it's ultimately the board's discretion. There's no contractual obligation to pay it and there is a growth component to them as well. So, they're a little bit in between on that front. So they do have an income component and therefore the market does sometimes treat them as bond proxy like securities like especially altrias or realy incomes of the world or even AT&Ts. At the same time they don't have you know they're a little bit in between. So that's in some ways a disadvantage. You don't have the safety of bonds but you still get penalized like a bond when interest rates rise and you don't have the massive growth and upside potential that the high-flying tech stocks give you. And so there's a little bit of a happy medium. So some people think like why would I ever buy dividend stocks? Why not just buy the growth companies, get really rich and put it on the fixed income and retire on your dividends and your interest payments. Okay, that's one approach you could do. I I think if you're a diversified, you know, you just invest in a passive fund and you want to just buy and fold forever, that's not a bad approach. And honestly, I might take that approach myself if I were just a passive investor and didn't want to spend any time studying dividend stocks. But of course, you wouldn't be watching this video if you belonged into that category. And again, I probably still would go with dividend growth investing, at least as I got closer to retirement, because I like the growth component that offsets inflation rather than just the fixed income. But regardless, I think there's an even better way. And this is what I do at High Yield Investor, my investing group. I buy individual dividend stocks and occasionally I'll supplement them with some ETFs if it's I want diversification to a sector that I'm bullish on, but I don't have the circle of competence expertise to pick individual winners in it. But generally, I just focus on individual stocks. And the reason that's so valuable is because dividend stocks are much easier to value than high-flying growth growth stocks because you don't have to project. you you're not dealing with these really high valuations like Palanteer has and you're expecting oh 10 years out from now they're still going to be growing at a 30 35 40% you know revenue ker I can just say oh hey this stock like enterprise product partners has or nbridge you know they have highly contracted cash flows or even regulated they have a 5 12 7% dividend yield and they're likely to grow at you know if you do the inflation linked escalators plus the and contractual escalators plus some of retained cash flows into growth okay we're looking at you know mid mid- singledigit annualized growth rate bounce back backed by you know strong investment grade credit ratings you know very defensive business model very simple easy to understand easy to calibrate okay the growth is going to be in this range very likely there's not much that's going to derail at to the the high end or the low end and then as the market fluctuates its appraisal of those you can you know use the volatility of equities to your advantage when those companies come in favor sell them recycle the capital into a similar company with a similar profile but that's out of favor and rinse and repeat when it goes out of favor more and take advantage of that that gift to the market. Now again, these are not guaranteed returns. This is do your own diligence. There is risk in every investment. You're inevitably going to have losers and that's why you diversify. And that's what we've done at High Yield Investor. We've picked these companies with this sort of underwriting, taking advantage of the opportunistic capital cycling. But again, we have had losers. This is not a guaranteed, you know, getri scheme. But by diversifying, being patient, consistently implementing value investing principles, and using our opportunistic capital recycling program, we've been able to generate significant outperformance over time at High Yield Investor. In fact, right now we are offering a Black Friday deal where you can get a $100 off if you choose to join. Sign up at the link there in the video description or the top pin comment. You can check that out for yourself. I also have free list of high yield dividend stocks. You can click the link and for those and get the list completely for free. That's my gift to you. So anyway, that's what I've been able to do. And so that's I think a better approach than SHD because not only have I been able to significantly in fact by a 2 to1 margin outperform SHD over the past 5 years at high yield investor using that approach and beat all the other dividend stocks and even beat the S&P, but I've also been able to generate a higher yield. My current weighted average yield across my core portfolio and retirement portfolio is about 7% and actually closer to 8% in the retirement portfolio. And I've implemented regular capital recycling that not only helps my total returns but actually grows that dividend income quite rapidly. And so my dividend growth rate is at least in line with if not better than CHDs because of the capital recycling component where I can sell a lower yielding security and buy a higher yielding and more undervalued one and rinse and repeat and rinse and repeat. So that's been my approach. And so for those reasons, I think SE again is a good choice if you want to, you know, just buy and hold, especially if you're close to or in retirement and you want to live off the 4% rule with that really strong dividend growth. And you could even live on a higher rule than that if you again diversify it into funds that for like REITs and MLPS and infrastructure and BDC's that have even higher yields than that. But again, it's a good baseline with dividend growth. But again, I think it's structural flaws of lacking exposure to some of the most dynamic growth companies make it a as well as this lack of capital recycling uh within dividend stocks, which to me is the biggest advantage from a total return perspective of investing dividend stocks makes it a subpar holding. And for for total returns focused investors like myself, that's where I I would say the strike goes against it. So anyway, hopefully this video is useful for you. You gain new insight into SCD and how you can think about how you want to what path you want to pick. Do you want to go with the growth NASDAQ, S&P 500, MAG 7 type stocks? and then switch to bonds or dividend growth when you get older. Do you want to just stay the course with SCHD? Again, it's arguably very undervalued right now and it could be a major outperformer in the near term. Or do you want to switch to a actively managed dividend growth investing strategy with higher yielding stocks and potential for higher dividend growth and higher total returns ultimately like I do at High Yield Investor. Let me know in the thoughts below what you think. And again, please uh check out that free link to high yielding dividend stocks in the video description, as well as the comment section, as well as take advantage of our limited time $100 off 30-day money back guarantee. So, you lose nothing uh if you try it out and you don't like it. And at the very least, you can see my portfolio and my trades and how I run my portfolio, as well as exclusive interviews, deep dive interviews, uh deep dive analysis, etc. So, please avail yourself of that special for yield investor as well. Thank you so much. See you next time.